# MinnPost’s “PVI” 2016

Part of what determines MinnPost’s [Legislative districts to watch](https://www.minnpost.com/politics-policy/2016/07/25-legislative-races-watch-minnesota-2016) is
a consideration of previous election results in legislative districts.

For elections that took place with the current district boundaries, this information
can be easily obtained in spreadsheets from the Minnesota Secretary of State. Versions
of those spreadsheets are in the `data/` folder:
 - `2012-state-house.csv`
 - `2012-state-senate.csv`
 - `2014-state-house.csv`

For elections that occurred prior to redistricting, some work is needed to project
the results on to the current districts. We do this by finding the centroids of precincts
in previous elections, and then assigning each precinct to a post-redistricting (2012)
district based on where its centroid falls. This is all done in QGIS and the files
are not included in this repo, other than their results, `data-processing/2006-precincts-in-2012-districts.csv` and `data-processing/2010-precincts-in-2012-districts.csv`. Those files list a pre-redistricting
and post-redistricting district for each Minnesota precinct.

Those precinct crosswalks are used by `data-processing/2006-precincts-to-2012-dists.py` and `data-processing/2010-precincts-to-2012-dists.py` to take per-precinct results files from the Minnesota
Secretary of State (`data/2006_general_results.csv` and `data/2010_general_results_final.csv`)
and generate results as if those votes had happened in 2012 districts. Those results
are in `data-processing/2006_results_in_2012_districts.csv` and `data-processing2010_results_in_2012_districts.csv`. Unfortunately, the Python scripts for this project
were written to be very specific to what was needed here and probably aren't especially reusable.

The file `3-elex-averages.ods` combines data from the Secretary of State (for 2012 and 2014 elections)
and data generated by the scripts (for the 2010 and 2006 elections) to give a district
electoral history and show which districts were, on average, closest. It's important to note that
these averages are just one factor we consider in determining which elections we expect
to be the hardest fought in 2016.
